{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
\f6\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green250\blue200;\red83\green83\blue83;
\red234\green234\blue234;\red36\green36\blue36;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;\red25\green25\blue25;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c98039\c82353;\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;
\cssrgb\c93333\c93333\c93333;\cssrgb\c18824\c18824\c18824;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;\cssrgb\c12941\c12941\c12941;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11000\viewh18180\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Hemocyanin, a vaccine adjuvant.  The search for an alternative source\
\
\
Hemocyanin is an oxygen carrying molecule commonly found in arthropods, mollusks, and occasionally other invertebrates.  Hemocyanin is somewhat analogous to hemoglobin.  While hemoglobin uses cell contained iron to bind oxygen for transport, hemocyanin is freely diffused in the hemolymph (invertebrate blood) and uses copper to bind and transport oxygen. [1]\
\
Hemocyanin is of interest in biomedical research because of its use as an adjuvant in vaccine development.  An adjuvant is an immunostimulant that, when administered in tandem with a vaccine, elicits a stronger immune response than the vaccine alone, resulting in a stronger and longer lasting immunity [3].  Unfortunately, current production of hemocyanin consists of harvesting blood from Keyhole Limpets and purifying hemocyanin from their blood.  Keyhole limpets are found worldwide, but as you can imagine, they do not produce much blood. As a result, keyhole limpet hemocyanin is extremely expensive, as much as $5,000 per gram.  \
\
Because of its use in research, continuous harvesting of hemocyanin from this species may lead to widespread ecological repercussions.  To this date, I am only aware of one source of recombinant hemocyanin, and with a purity of 95% it is not suitable for GMP or GCP use [4].  With a global pandemic and wait for a vaccine, it seems advantageous to have multiple sources of an adjuvant to avoid breakdown of the vaccine supply chain.  \
\
I propose to investigate alternative sources of hemocyanin other than harvesting from Keyhole Limpets.\'a0\'a0Four species of mollusk have been found to express similar forms of hemocyanin: Concholepas concholepas, Fissurella latimarginata, Haliotis tuberculata, and Rapana thomasiana.\'a0 Hemocyanin is estimated to be at least 540 million to 600 million years old, first emerging at the same time as the divergence of crustaceans and chelicerates [5].\'a0 This should leave us with a wide variety of organisms to investigate as alternative sources of hemocyanin.\'a0\'a0\
\
Once organisms expressing similar hemocyanins are found, the immunological effects of their hemocyanin will be characterized for comparison.\'a0 Organisms with a larger blood volume and fast growth phases would be prioritized over smaller organisms like Keyhole Limpets.\'a0 Also, organisms that can be easily farmed will be considered as a replacement for Keyhole Limpets.\'a0 Immune responses for both innate and adaptive immune systems will be characterized with a focus on developing memory T cell populations in response to vaccination.\'a0\'a0\
\
This opens up the possibilities of future studies characterizing the structure and sub-units of various organism's hemocyanin.\'a0 If we can better understand why this protein elicits such a strong immune response, we can create and produce recombinant proteins at a fraction of the price that it currently costs to harvest and purify from limpets.\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Concholepas concholepas\
Fissurella latimarginata\
Haliotis tuberculata\
Rapana thomasiana
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[1]  Markl, J. (2013). Evolution of molluscan hemocyanin structures. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - Proteins and Proteomics, 1834(9), 1840\'961852. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbapap.2013.02.020\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
[2]. Becker, Mar\'eda & Arancibia Zunino, Sergio & Salazar, Fabian & Campo, Miguel & Ioannes, Alfredo. (2014). Mollusk Hemocyanins as Natural Immunostimulants in Biomedical Applications. 10.5772/57552. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26 \cf6 \cb7 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[3]  Awate, S., Babiuk, L. A., & Mutwiri, G. (2013). Mechanisms of action of adjuvants.\'a0
\f3\i Frontiers in immunology
\f2\i0 ,\'a0
\f3\i 4
\f2\i0 , 114. https://doi.org/10.3389/fimmu.2013.00114\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs24 \cf8 \cb1 \ul \ulc8 [4]  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.raybiotech.com/hemocyanin-keyhole-limpet-klh-subunits-powder/"}}{\fldrslt https://www.raybiotech.com/hemocyanin-keyhole-limpet-klh-subunits-powder/}}\
\
[5]. 
\f5\fs32 \cf9 \cb7 \ulnone Linzen B, Soeter NM, Riggs AF, et al. The structure of arthropod hemocyanins.\'a0
\f6\i Science
\f5\i0 . 1985;229(4713):519-524. doi:10.1126/science.4023698}